Roger, would you give us a little bit of background, kind of how you grew up and
how you got interested initially in science fiction? How I grew up, while I was
first born, yes, my father had been interested in science fiction from the days
of Gernsback with Amazing Stories, and one of the first presents that I got that
I remember getting was a complete set at the time of the old Ace Double novels.
Golly, I must have been seven or eight years old at the time, and I read those
avidly, and then I went on to other things. I went on to Childhood's End by
Arthur C. Clarke and a mirror for observers by Edgar Pangborn, and I really
liked it. In fact, I liked both of them, and I liked science fiction so much
that I tended to read science fiction in those years and not other types of
fiction. Other people may have been reading Tarzan or whatever, but i would read
only science fiction principally science fiction by pool anderson as i mentioned
author c clark and and so on and i just grew to love it i uh i think i still
have a list somewhere of every science fiction book that i i read during my teen
years and then uh i think i was in my early 20s when i got the idea after
reading some anthologies that maybe i could do an anthology possibly as good as
anybody else so the first couple that i got together from uh magazines
Clippingum story here, the first couple were rejected. And then I met Sam
Moskowitz, and he and I did an anthology together called Alien Worlds for
Paperback Library. That did well, in fact, and they signed a second anthology
entitled Invasion of the Robots. Neither of those two built Sam's name directly,
and apparently, if I remember correctly, that's the way he wanted it. But
subsequent to those two, Sam and I went on to do several directly, and then I
worked with a fine gentleman named Vic Gadaglia, who is now director of
publicity for ABC Television in New York. We did, oh, three or four, possibly as
many as five, together. And if I remember correctly, all of those anthologies
were of reprinted material. I started to branch out on my own doing anthologies
on a solo basis, was principally commissioning original stories by well-known
authors and beginning authors, and I, as it turned out, had access to the
authors directly, perhaps a little more than Sam or Vic did, so we didn't part
company so much in a very unfriendly way, we parted company in a friendly way,
and we went off in different directions, and I don't, except for Epoch with Bob
Silverberg and Spine Chillers for Doubleday with Howard Goldsmith. I don't
believe... Oh, yes, and Saving Worlds with Virginia Kidd. I have not done any
anthologies, with those three exceptions, with anybody else. I've worked
principally on a solo-editor basis for ten years now. And in that period of ten
years... Oh, including novels, collections, one-author collections, and
anthologies, is I've done over 100 books.
The main reason I wanted to talk to you is that you have been a very prolific
editor, and I wanted to take the chance to explore how one sets up an anthology,
how you get the idea. Of course, you can't answer how you get the idea. But how
the idea gestates, and then how you approach publishers with the idea, how you
line the stories, that sort of thing. Could you give us a sketch, Let me use an
anthology entitled Future City. I originally did it for Trident Press, which was
a division of Simon & Schusten. Then it went into paperback through pocketbooks.
I got to know the editor there at the time, Bernard Shercliffe, who I believe is
now with Warner Paperback Books. I said to Bernie, and by that time I had built
up a credit list of enough reprint and a few isolated original anthologies that
I could send him some of these as examples, and he liked what he saw, and he
said, well, what would you like to do? He said, are there themes that we'd like
to cover, urban development or whatever? And I said, well, why don't we do an
anthology based upon the theme of the city of the future and what the destiny of
the city is going to be? And he liked it, and I sent him a page or two proposal,
and we talked a couple more times by phone, and to my surprise and pleasure,
they sent me a good contract. And then as I started to develop the anthology,
most original anthologies, even around a theme, are somewhat hodgepodge-y. And
as good as Epoch was, maybe which I did with Bob Soberberg, it still is a
collection of diverse stories by diverse writers on a variety of themes. And I
wanted future cities, I got into it to have a central cohesion that you don't
always find even in themed anthologies. So what we did was I designed it as
though, in a sense, it were a kind of episodic novel written by 15 or 20
different people. Each chapter was a story written by 15 or 20 different people.
And as the anthology started out, the story or stories were reasonably
optimistic or at least not unduly negative. And then as the anthology
progressed, we have a chronological and psychological dissipation, if you will,
and the stories became increasingly pessimistic. And the last story involves the
world blowing up and all cities going into dust. So we start out optimistically,
progress to moderately pessimistic, progress to a story which ended with no
hope. And so there you have a cohesion that just most anthologies, original or
otherwise, do not have. And it was a lot more fun to do and more artistically
challenging because you're handing out assignments, as it were, to 15, 20
authors. And how much do you guide the author in terms of having the author fit
the story into where that story would fit in the anthology? And of course, I got
in a number of stories, at that time I got in hundreds of stories on an
unsolicited basis, and for this anthology, one or two or three were quite good.
And there I had the luxury of reading the story first and finding out where it
fit. But normally with original, all new anthologies where you assign the
stories, it's a little difficult. So there was a little bit of trial and error.
But Ted Sturgeon did a review, I believe it was for Amazing Stories, I could be
wrong, in which he said that this was probably one of the best, if not the best
anthology that I had ever done. But, of course, I don't necessarily do an
anthology. I do a novel, because I am the one person writing that book. But I'm
simply, in effect, a kind of hub of the wheel, and the writers are the spokes.
and it all works together because we're working in it together. So I consider
Future City to be really a terrific book. And I'd say that without ego because I
was only, in a sense, a minor part of it. The writers wrote it. And that book
also included poems and included some extremely outspoken stories, some
extremely violent stories. And so there was a good cross-section of styles, but
chronologically and psychologically the anthology assumes that the city is a
dead quote thing unquote and the stories proceeded to out of that viewpoint You
mentioned that one way you can look at this is as a novel Have you ever
attempted to write stories yourself or still plan to? Oh, I sold a story to uh,
to Bob Silverberg for new dimensions four. It was, it's interesting. It's the,
it's so totally avant guard with sentence structure and the way the type is set
on the stage. It's rather bizarre. I was somewhat influenced by so many stories
that I had bought from Barry Mossberg. I think I am Barry claims that I bought
more stories from him than any other editor, more wordage, including the novels.
and his stories tend to be often bizarre in the best sense of the term as a
Picasso painting might be considered bizarre if compared with another painter's
more traditional work. So this story was totally different from what people had
expected of me and from me and it got a lot of good recognition. And then I did
several stories from my own anthologies which is not as nepotistic or incestuous
as you might think Because what I did was I would send the story that I had
written to the publisher and said, look, is this good enough to include? If it
isn't, I don't think either of us should touch it with the proverbial 10-foot
pole. And in three or four cases where I did stories for my own anthologies, the
publisher said, fine, let's use it. So I did use it. But as far as my own
writing now, I'm principally writing nonfiction, and that nonfiction is
principally comprised of interviews with TV and movie stars, with politicians,
with, for example, in October, I'm going to England and I'm going to be
interviewing Sir John Gielgud, Sir Ralph Richardson, Sir Lawrence Olivier, and
so on, people of that caliber and quality in the acting field. and so most of my
writing is in the area of personality profiling slash interviewing. I'm
presently editor-in-chief of a new national magazine. I don't want this to be a
commercial, but I'm trying to ask your question in terms of my own writing now.
I'm editor-in-chief of a new national magazine entitled Person-to-Person, which
the publisher is bringing out to compete with people. And the sole reason for
that magazine's existence is over the past 21 years I've been interviewing
people, and I started interviewing celebrities, if you will, long before I got
into science fiction, and have now continued with it, now that I'm principally
out of science fiction. The litany of complaints that I've heard over the last
20, 21 years has been really pretty bad. The average journalist may well
consider the average celebrity to be fair game, and so many magazines, even
others, which should not be named for print or for telecast or broadcast, other
magazines do not have an unbending philosophy of editorial integrity. They feel
it is all right to apparently misquote a star. They feel it is all right to tack
on a scandal-ridden, misleading headline. And the person is geared toward real
integrity in journalism, checking material through a star, and this leads to the
point that I am writing a book of all the material that appears, at least in the
first several issues of Person to Person, because I'm rather pig-headed about
how it should be done. I feel the style should be of a certain type, the depth,
if you will, the interview, should be always consistent, little of anything that
is superficial. And so I'm writing, oh, golly, it's 64-page magazine. I must be
writing 40 to 45 pages of it. Other writers include Armie Archard, who is a
columnist for Daily Variety and interviews a number of the film stars prior to
the Academy Awards broadcast each year. So I'm doing that writing. Four years
ago, I wrote a novel rather like, oh, I guess you could say in the Jonathan
Livingston Seagull genre, and that was called Soaring. that was strictly a work
of fiction. I've written biographies of Nancy Reagan for Simon & Schuster back
in 76. Biographies of Pat and Shirley Boone. Collections of interviews that I've
done. And I'm also getting into, I hope, pretty fair novelizations of different
TV shows. I just finished something based upon the spinoff from Happy Days, Joni
Loachachachay. I'm finishing now Oh, Facts of Life novelization. I've also done
tie-ins, although not novelizations, with Dukes of Hazzard and Fantasy Island
and so on. Sounds like you don't get bored. I don't. And I'll tell you, I'm
also, and I can't name them yet, I've just been appointed, and I hope I'm using
the right title. If it's inaccurate, don't kill me, but it amounts to the same
thing in any event. entertainment editor for one of the oldest newspaper
syndication services in the country beginning in a month or two and I have the
contract literally here and I'm signing it this weekend. By September, October
we're going to be putting together a packet of entertainment-oriented materials
columns, articles, etc. and sending that to subscribing newspapers around the
country with the notion that if you buy this packet you don't have to buy a
column from this service this from another it's going to be a complete
entertainment package it's going to be called person to person and once again
it's going to have the editorial philosophy that every word is true every fact
is accurate if there is something terribly outspoken in it it's not something
that we have made up it's something that celebrity has chosen to give for
example Linda Blair, who was in The Exorcist in the sequel and a number of other
films, some years ago developed a problem with drugs, and that somewhat hampered
her career, and she's making a comeback now, and she has never talked about this
in-depth before. So what we're going to be doing is an interview, which I'll be
conducting with Linda, perceptively, lovingly, and hopefully with some attempt
to show how she got into this and why she's glad she's out. In other words, an
attempt to do something, hopefully, of the depth and length of a Playboy
interview, and she has never talked about that before. I would intend it as a
kind of message to young people around the country as to the problems of getting
involved with drugs. was was science fiction then just a phase that you passed
through and now you it was a really long phase it lasted for ten years was it a
phase something that is ten year a decade long or is a phase some transitory
thing I think of a phase as something somebody gets into for a year or two or
maybe three probably never four with me it lasted if you will ten years, rather
than a phase which involves a mental image of something maybe capricious, I
would say it was a period in my career, not a phase. Let me, if I can, go back
in those days then and ask a couple more questions about being an editor. When
you were editing science fiction anthologies, what kind of audience did you aim
for? Were you trying to please yourself or some commercial stereotype that or
whatever you could aim for? Well basically although some people can fault my
judgment or Bob Silverberg's or Marlowe and Allison's or whoever I basically
bought stories that I liked. I basically bought stories that I felt in some
cases even if I didn't particularly like them if they were well written if they
had something to say if they were something that obviously the author felt
sincerely uh i bought it anyway i bought some stories that i felt were
personally religiously morally or whatever uh offensive because i felt they said
something worthwhile.
You apparently really got to know the writers, and I gather from what you were
telling me about what you're doing now, you really, you apparently have a talent
for acquiring a relationship with a lot of people. I would assume... Can I
interrupt? Sure. Let me use a different word. You don't acquire a relationship.
Right. Because that implies that you're looking to acquire relationships. Right.
And if one acquires a relationship, one begins to think of relationships as
acquiring a prize or a trophy or something. Well taken. I think relationships
develop, and what I would say is I am interested in relationships developing
beyond purely the professional-slash-commercial implications, i.e., I will
interview star X, Y, or Z. The interview goes very well. The star will say, give
me a buzz. We'll have lunch next week. I'll give the star a buzz. We have lunch
next week. The star will say, hey, I'd like to get you to meet a friend of mine.
Boom, boom, boom. So it leads into that so that you do not, or rather, I enjoy
what I'm doing only superficially because of the money and only superficially
because of the recognition. It really is coming quite heavily now. I enjoy what
I'm doing because of people. One mistake that I made in science fiction, which I
am doing anything but making now, is that I conducted so much of my business by
phone. And this man back in New Jersey was always making phone calls and doing
this and that. I was like the, you know, the unseen entrepreneur, if you will,
in the field. And people that didn't meet me tended to wonder what I was like
and in some cases not like what they felt I was like. However, when you meet
people, they will obviously possibly dislike you. On the other hand, they may
like you. And so I feel if I had anything at all to do over in the science
fiction field, I would have gone to conventions. I would have had parties of my
own. I would have gotten out there more and mixed with people. Recently, I
became involved with Disney Studios in attending the science fiction convention
scene and the comic book scene representing them and doing some preparatory work
in terms of publicizing Tron. It was like night and day. Even some authors,
three or four, that I met at these conventions with whom I had had sometimes
vehement arguments over the phone, really boisterous name-calling, bad language
on their part at least. I try not to fall into bad language, I'm sure I even
slipped, too. And these are really horrendous arguments. I meet these same
people in person. We end up shaking hands. I even threw a pie in one of their
faces. Now, let me explain that. There was a stump the experts panel at one of
the conventions. And I am kind of a movie trivia nut. So the idea is you're
supposed to ask one of the experts a question, which I did. They didn't have the
answer. But they get a chance to ask you a question. and if you don't have the
answer, you don't get a pie in your face, but you also don't get the right to
throw a pie in their face. So I asked the expert a question. He didn't know the
answer. He asked me a question. I knew the answer, and so I got to throw a pie
in his face. So I threw a pie in the face of somebody with whom I had had
sometimes vicious arguments over the phone, and afterwards we went to a party
together and were very friendly. So I think what people don't see in person, or
who people don't see in person, they either fear or they suspect that person's
motives, because all they're hearing is this sometimes intruding voice over the
telephone. Out here, where I'm with celebrities, if you will, day and night, so
to speak, I go to interviews five or six, sometimes seven, eight interviews a
week, most of them in person, sometimes they'll come to the house. I've thrown
parties, for example, for a number of people. I won't use their names because
I'm not trying to capitalize on the parties. They weren't show business parties,
but they were parties involving friends. And I've thrown a half a dozen of those
in the past year or so. And what I'm interested now are the personal
relationships as much as possible. Was that an answer to your question? That's a
good answer, yeah. This is enjoyable. This is totally different than I expected.
Now, what did you expect? No, I expected something great. It's just I didn't
realize you were so deeply involved in the popular entertainment scene. This is
educational for me. Good. My wife will love it because she's quite interested in
this. If you ever come out to California, we'll introduce you to a few other
studios. Okay, I may take you up on that and leave me. You mentioned a while ago
that when you were buying the science fiction stories, that you did buy some
that you really didn't necessarily approve of, although you thought other people
would like them. No, no, no. I didn't say that I bought them because I thought
people would like them. There can be a wonderful story that we all dislike, but
the author has said something worthwhile. And, you know, there are a number of
stories I bought which maybe I liked and nobody else did, So I didn't
necessarily buy a story for people to like them. I bought stories because I felt
they were good and hoped that people would like them. Okay.
There have been critics in the past who have said that you censored things, that
sort of thing. Is that really true, or perhaps that's just a convenient word
they can bring up because they didn't accept your story? Define the word for me
as you use it. Censored to me would mean that there was material included which
was blue lined or cut out or whatever, and the story was used anyway, or it was
rejected solely for that content and not for literary content, let's say. That's
just my interpretation. Okay, now I'm not trying to hedge, but I want to think
of instances and so forth. I wish I could be specific. I just remember reading
through the years. If that's the way you use the word censored, yeah, I guess it
would crop up or it did crop up. But I don't use the word censored so much as
exercise personal taste. Now, I think this question was brought up many years
ago. Yes. And my response to the author or the interviewer or the other editor
or the publisher or whoever it was, or the fans who raised the question was, all
right, let me respond to that with a question. Would you publish a story,
wonderfully written, artistically valid, well-plotted, believable characters,
interesting story that drew you into the action, and at the end you had to admit
that it was just pure dynamite. Would you, however, publish such a story that
accused your mother of being a whore who gave birth to you illegitimately? And
the writer says, no, of course, that would be personally insulting to somebody I
love. I said, for that same reason, I will not publish a story that defames God
or Jesus Christ in any way. Or that defames my country. Or that defames my
parents, if you will. I would not publish a story for the very same reason. If I
found a story, and there's a slight contradiction here, thinking back to what I
said earlier, I said earlier I might publish or I did publish stories that were
personally offensive. It's on a case-by-case basis. I might find a story that
advocated something, whatever that something was, personally offensive. But I
would not publish a story that ridiculed defamed my religion or, frankly,
anybody else's, because that would be a different type of offensive. I might
agree that a person who advocated something certainly had the freedom to
advocate that, and I might not agree with it. I would publish it anyway if it
were a good story. However, I think that there's too much, and this is another
reason why Person2Person exists, there's too much negative journalism, there's
too much negative fiction, where anything goes under the guise of artistic
liberty. I would never advocate general censorship. Let's say this, I would
never advocate institutionalized censorship. But an editor or a movie director
or whatever, they have the right, according to their personal views, to say,
well, I like that and I'll publish it, or I like that and I'll produce it or
direct it. or I don't like it, and I won't publish it, and I don't like it, and
I won't produce it or direct. They have that right to guide their project
according to their personal taste. You would never catch, for example, and I
think I am surmising this properly, Alan Alda or Ed Asner producing a movie or a
TV show
that presented a favorable picture of Ronald Reagan. They would find that
personally offensive. So are they exercising censorship when they're exercising
their own personal taste? I don't think so. Thank you for that answer. That was
a hard question for me to ask. How did my answer say? It sounds great. I know
now why when I said this interview was a surprise and I'm used to interviewing
science fiction authors and they never ask me questions. They don't make me
define my terms. So, this is enjoyable. It doesn't feel like such a one way
street. Don't forget, I am an interviewer too. You're in trouble tonight. No, I
need to learn a lot. I'm going to find out about you at night. Before we leave
anthologies, I want to ask one more question on it. Did you discover any new
writers? Is that kind of... And if you did, is that kind of a high point of
being an editor? I would think it would be. It really is. Golly, discover. I did
discover some. I think a better term with a bulk of the newer writers is that
rather than discover them, I helped, we're using the word properly, augment
their career. or I augmented their careers. One writer who comes to mind is
Steve Golden. Steve, I think, has said in print and to me personally that I
helped propel his career along. Did I discover, and I'm sure that other editors
or anthologists published Steve before I did, but I gave him, I think, in terms
of novels and short stories, a real, his career, rather, a real impetus and
probably did something to help him. In Barry Malsberg's case, he certainly was
around with Beyond Apollo and others long before, well, maybe not so long, but
before I came on the scene so energetically. But I bought more articles, not
sorry, more short stories and more novels from Barry than any other single
editor and probably did something major or minor, negligible or significant to
help up-establish him more than he had been but oh there were some writers i
discovered golly uh i think there was one writer named j.j russ who wrote a very
good story kind of a story which was a commentary on pornography and striptease
artist uh and then there were so many others that i may have bought one story
from and maybe didn't buy any others and maybe nobody ever heard from them So
when you say discover a writer, that implies that you found a Hemingway, or you
found another writer of similar stature, an Irving Stone or someone, and from
that moment of beginning, they went on to great things. I can't honestly say
that I was responsible in that way for discovering a writer, if that's how you
apply the word discover. I want to move on now to Laser Books, the Laser series
which you edited, How did you get involved in that? How did that get started?
Well, I read in Publishers Weekly an interview with the president of the
company, Harlequin Enterprises Limited, an interview with Larry Heisey, and he
seemed to be suggesting, perhaps between the lines, that they would love to do
books beyond simply the romance field in which they had been until that time and
still are a leader, or THE leader, rather. They have tens of millions of books
every year. And so I thought I would call up Heise, and I did, and got through
reasonably quickly and indicated to him the science fiction field and movies
that were coming out that would help give the popularity of science fiction a
real foundation, a continuing foundation. And he said, send me a letter. I'd
love to talk to you about it. So I sent him, apparently, a persuasive letter,
and he called me up a few days later. I remember at that time I was living in
New Jersey, so it wasn't such a chore to get to New York. It was a two-hour or
so drive, whether I drove or went by bus. And he said, I'm really interested.
Why don't you meet me at this and such hotel? So I did, and we had a further
meeting, and then they paid for me to come up to Toronto, Canada, and I met with
their board of directors and all, their salespeople. It was really a very nice
meeting. So they decided a week or two later to get into science fiction via
Laser Books. And I've talked with the people, the new people at Harlequin since
then, since Laser Books failed, and all sorts of postmortems on the situation.
But I would say if I have any bitterness, and somebody observed about me
recently that I don't hold any grudges, but I am human, so there is a residue of
bitterness. or regret, maybe regret more than business, is that, well, Harlequin
had the money to do the books properly, and when I say money to do the books
properly, publicized them, distribute them, et cetera. Where it fell short is
everything, and this is not a mean criticism of Harlequin because they're
awfully nice people. It may be a negative criticism, but it's not meant meanly
in any way. uh they fell short because every book had to fit into a formula that
they developed certain length certain type of story uh always a male protagonist
the cover design had to be ostensibly at least always the same design so it was
this formula and what i found myself facing, was if I had a fair book by a
writer that fit the formula, and a really good book by a writer that was maybe
off in one or two possibly even minor points, I had to buy the book that was
fair and reject the book that was quite good. A perfect case is a writer, golly
I must be getting old, whose name I forget. She's a female writer. She wrote a
book that fit the Harlequin approach to laser books in every way. Action
adventure. Upbeat ending. No profanity. No blatant sex. I mean, it went right on
down the line. And where it fell short, instead of having the principal
protagonist, a guy, it was a woman and so therefore it had to be rejected but it
was so good. And what I got tarred and run out of town for you might say is oh
golly, so many of the books are only fair or mediocre but that's unfortunately
the way it turned out.
So it was Harlequin who more or less set the editorial policy that you had to
follow. It was dictated to you. Totally. Now, again, hindsight not doing anybody
one bit of good. If I had it to do over again, famous words, might as well not
be said for all the good they do, but if I had it to do over again, I would have
been much more pig-headed not only at the beginning, but later, and I would have
said, all right, if you want me to buy the mediocre book, fine, but you do
really want to be known for a series of mediocre books? I said, because in the
science fiction field, interestingly enough, the commercial route is the route
that you want to follow, and that is best achieved if you publish good books and
if you publish books that have some divergence of style and plotting and so
forth. Because the science fiction field, more than the western field, more than
the detective or mystery field, responds negatively to the routine and the
pedestrian and the predictable. It may work in the romance field. It may work
in, and mind you, your books are great within the limitations of the genre. But
the science fiction genre, by its very nature, is an unfettered genre where you
can go to the moon, you can go to the stars, you can go inside the earth, you
can go back in time, you can go forward in time, you can do so many things. The
beauty of the genre is that you have no real limitations in that respect. So
what you want to do is superimpose a formula of limitations on an unformulized
novel, genre, if there's any such a word as unformulized, I said it's going to
be deaf eventually, but frankly it was a good contract, they were exceptionally
nice people, and it was a very enticing situation that I wouldn't, I really
would not duplicate again. If a publisher, Harlequin or whoever, and I were in
touch again, I would want virtually total editorial autonomy
within previously agreed parameters. There has to be parameters of some sort. I
mean, no publisher will let and shouldn't let an editor publish three novels of
1,000 pages a piece every month. I mean, there have to be some financial or
other limitations. But within those parameters, I would want total editorial
integrity. That's the way I would do it again because that doesn't do any good
now. What kind of audience did the Harlequin people have visualize for the Laser
Series? That's tougher. I think, well, this was covered at one convention I did
attend, and I didn't attend very many, as I said to my regret. The fan of
science fiction who felt that there was too much quirkiness getting into the
genre, There is too much blatant sexuality getting into the genre, and that the
science fiction at its best is the science fiction epitomized by Hugo Gernsback,
John W. Campbell. By the way, let me add parenthetically that John W. Campbell,
if he was a dictator, was far more of a censor-wielding dictator than I ever
was, but the science fiction epitomized by Campbell and Gernsback in a more
poetic sense by Ray Bradbury and so on, you would not really catch, you would
not really have caught Gernsback or Campbell publishing anything that was even,
I guess, remotely sexually suggestive. You certainly would not catch Ray
Bradbury publishing, quote, an offensive story. and so I felt that I fit more
and I've been compared to that mold than in any other type and I just lost track
of your question. Me too. Oh yeah okay for what audience? I think you answered
it the first sentence really but what audience was it intended? That audience
the classical ah okay perfect example the audience that responded with such
energy to Star Wars, Empire Strikes Back, Close Encounters, and now E.T. Not the
audience which would have responded to some dark, perverse, sexually explicit
kind of material. Okay. That series did fail. Yes. Did it fail, and I assume
that that means financially, did it really lose money or did it just not make as
much money as Harlequin wanted it to? Well, I am told, and I have nothing
concrete in my hand right now to validify this in any way, but I was told,
hearsay and bond and all, what I was told was this. The Harlequin books sold as
well at the time as the average doll book and maybe even the average beast book.
But Harlequin used to 100,000 copies per book, 200,000, maybe even 300,000, was
not content with 30,000, 40,000, 50,000 copies. Okay, yeah. Don Walheim told us
that, I think he said, that 30,000 books was what was required for a doll book
to break even. Yep. So, I guess 50,000 is money in his pocket. Yes, and also
Harlequin did spend a lot of money advertising the books. And, you know, it's
interesting. A number of the authors, seven, eight, ten, however many, have told
me subsequent to the suspension of publication of Laser Books that over the
following six months to a year after the books were suspended, they were getting
royally checked. I think one writer got, beyond his original advance, of course,
one writer was surprised to open up an envelope from Harlequin one day and find
a check for $1,100. The authors certainly didn't lose money. Quite a number of
the authors got additional royalties, but it just wasn't successful enough for
Harlequin to continue. This is something that's a hearsay or it's an impression
that's been built up over the years reading about that situation. but I
understand that perhaps the Harlequin people didn't realize that people buy
science fiction authors and they buy some author, a famous author, they'll buy a
Frank Herbert, whereas if they see an unknown, they won't buy that book. And
they assumed that the science fiction people would buy the book just because it
was science fiction. Well, I would tend more to agree, oh, golly, we're going in
three directions there. We're saying they'll buy the book because it's science
fiction, they'll buy the book because it's a name author, and they won't buy the
book because it's an unknown author. Well, I disagree with the fact that they
won't buy the book because it's an unknown author. I'll get that out. An unknown
author. Steve Golden at the time with his other books was quasi-unknown. And
there were so many authors who weren't extremely well-known, such as Ray Nelson,
such as others. And those books sold better than any of the other Harlequin
books. Certainly, Jerry Parnell sold well, but at the time, he hadn't really had
the $100,000 successes that he's having today. So I would disagree with the fact
that if a book is presented well, and this was in those days, maybe today it's a
little more sophisticated, a little more selective, better word, I think if the
book looked appealing, the author was not necessarily the deciding factor.
Obviously, though, if we'd had Philip K. Dick and Paul Anderson and Bob
Silverberg and so on write for us, The sales would have been better. But even
so, I remember talking to Bob Silverberg about one of his books. It was with
Signet, New American Library. If I recall properly, it had gone through two
printings. And by the end of the second printing, had sold the grand total, over
a period of X number of years, had sold the grand total of 80,000 copies. Well,
that's Bob Silverberg. I doubt that Harlequin would have been satisfied waiting
X number of years for a book to sell one-half or one-third or one-quarter of
what the average romance book sold in six months. Okay. I got you. It's just a
matter of perspective, really. Okay. Tell you what, let me change my tape. Let
me get a glass of water, and I will be right back. Okay, great. Thank you.